# URVA Visualization Program (UVP)

## Program Overview
UVP is a user-friendly GUI designed for the visual mechanistic analysis of URVA output data, especially the curvature of the reaction path (RP) on the potential energy surface of the reaction complex (RC), the union of the reacting species. This interface enables users to interactively and simultaneously compare the change in the RP curvature with changes in the RC geometry and electronic energy as a function of the reaction coordinate. Cross-comparing the RP curvature with the RC properties, the user can better understand the chemical meaning of each URVA reaction phase, thereby enriching the mechanistic analysis of each elementary step of a given reaction mechanism. 

The GUI requires three input files: an RP curvature file (.DAT format), an RC energy file (.CSV format), and an RC geometry file (.XYZ format). These output files are generated by our group's [URVA2025 program] [1] and its associated post-processing scripts, which are available upon request (contact email: ekraka@mail.smu.edu). Examples of these input files are provided in the examples directory and are also discussed below.

## Current Version: 0.1.0
### Version 0.1.0 Notes
* Initial version of GUI. Currently compatible only with macOS devices with the osx-arm64 platform (i.e., Apple Silicon).

## Requirements
* Python >= 3.12.3
* Conda

## Installation and Usage

Clone the repository to your local machine and access the repository
```Python
git clone git@github.com:SMU-CATCO/UVP.git
cd UVP
```
Create the uvp conda environment from the uvp.yml environment file
```Python
conda env create -f uvp.yml
```
Copy the uvp.py file to a directory of your choice, such as the home directory
```Python
cp uvp.py path/to/new/uvp/directory
```
In the ~/.bashrc file, include an alias to run the Python script:
```Python
alias uvp="python3 path/to/new/uvp/directory"
```
Afterwards, reload the ~/.bashrc file
```Python
source ~/.bashrc
```
Now, you can use the `uvp` alias to automatically run the uvp.py script within any directory containing the three UVP input files. An example of this is given below.

## Examples

Here, we will apply UVP to an elementary step of the ion-neutral, gas-phase reaction between acetonitrile (CH$_3$CN) and the carbon monochloride ion (CCl$^{+}$), [previously examined with URVA.][2]

## License Information
UVP is released under the GNU General Public License version 3.0 or any later version.

## References
[1]: Kalescky, R.; Santos-Jr., C. V.; Tao, Y.; Zou, W.; Freindorf, M.; Cremer, D.; Kraka, E. URVA2025. Computational and Theoretical Chemistry Group (CATCO), Southern Methodist University: Dallas, TX, USA, 2025.
[2]: Fleming, K.; Kraka, E. Examining Interstellar Ion-Neutral Reactions Using the Unified Reaction Valley Approach: The Case of the CCl$^{+}$ + CH$_3$CN Reaction. ACS Earth & Space Chem. 2025, 9, 1837–1847.
